hi this is Lisa at learn piano online
comm and I'm going to teach you how to
find middle C now you might think this
is easy to do and it really is however I
get so many questions about how to find
middle C and the reason why I get this
question is because everyone now has
different sized keyboards keyboards come
in 61 keys 76 keys in and if you didn't
know a piano has 88 keys well the best
way to find middle C is to find the C
that's closest to the very middle now if
you don't know yet
C is located to the left of every two
black key okay so if you wind up with
two Black Keys the C will be on the left
it's the white key on the left so on
your piano or game or there's several
C's middle C would be the one that's
closest to you when you sit right in the
middle of your piano or your keyboard
and what I say by the closest to the
middle is it's not the exact middle but
if you went to the right you're getting
farther away from the middle of your
piano or keyboard and if you went to the
left
you're getting farther away from the
middle C of your piano or keyboard
that's one way to know another way is if
you were sitting right in the middle of
your keyboard middle C is the closest to
you to your to your building I say this
to my kids all the time it's the C
closest to your belly button so that's
another way to know if you're on middle
C the other way is and I like this one
too is if you can match it with your
voice this C the middle C long it's easy
to reach with your voice now I'm not a
singer so I'm not perfect at singing
this but if I would have here to the
right
oh I can't reach it because I'm not a
very good seer but I have to I have to
strain a little bit to get there so
that's not middle C middle C will be
comfortable and if I went down to the
left
like I can't match it at all so I'm not
going to try and further but so you have
three ways to know if it's middle C
number one again it is closest to the
middle of your instrument number two
it's closest to your bellybutton when
you're sitting at the middle and number
three it is though it is the tone of the
seed that you can match the easiest with
your voice okay I hope that will help
you with finding middle C on the piano
and again this is Lisa at learn peel
learn piano online calm